now Israel's Army is warning gazans to
evacuate the alifa hospital as it
carries out an operation there the Hamas
run Palestinian health authority says
several people have been killed and part
of the complex is on fire Israel
released these images of the raid the
Army claims Hamas militants fired at
them from the hospital and that Hamas is
using alifa as a command center it's the
biggest and one of the last remaining
health facilities in the strip gazans
have sought shelter from the war at
alifa after the Hamas L October the 7th
Terror
attacks let's get more now from DW's
Tanya Kima who's in Jerusalem uh Tanya
can you give us the latest on this uh
this operation military operation at the
alifa hospital in
Gaza well from what we understand here
we of course not on the ground is that
the uh military operation is still uh
ongoing um this is as you said in alifa
hospital which is in the center of Gaza
City it's uh another raid on this
hospital and we understand that also
from eyewitnesses accounts uh that
there's also fighting going on in the
vicinity uh to the hospital and that
people in the neighborhood but also
those Sheltering uh in the hospital uh
on the hospital grounds uh have been
asked to uh evacuate and as you said the
Israeli Army started this raid early in
the morning uh saying that uh they have
intelligence that senior Hamas uh
terrorists the as they put it uh were uh
inside the hospitals there were shots
fired at the troops operating uh there
uh and uh that basically um many arrests
have been uh also made until now now
this is the uh another time that this
hospital has been raided the first time
was in November um and of course people
have sought shelter in hospitals such as
the shiffer hospital as uh hospitals are
seen as protector space according to
international law and and the people who
are Sheltering there I mean is there any
way for them to get
out well there are a bit of conflicting
reports what we are hearing I mean on
the one hand there's a statement that
came out early in the morning by the
Army saying they had cautioned uh the
troops operating there not to harm or to
avoid any harm to the medical staff to
patients that are inside the hospital
but we are also hearing from
eyewitnesses there that leaflets had
been dropped in the area in the
neighborhood uh of remal and also to
those Sheltering on the hospital grounds
that they should leave and evacuate uh
to Southern uh Gaza to the area um of
marasi that is uh on the coast in uh
near rafar so of course it's a bit
difficult now to understand how this
evacuation of people uh will work is
there a safe corridor
also we have to understand these people
have been there it's a very difficult
area Northern Gaza we've been talking
about it um supplies have not reach the
area very frequently so people would
have to see how they would get transport
so all of this uh is still to see uh how
this will unfold but it's certainly
devastating for those people who have
stayed in the neighborhood now to be
told to evacuate uh once again Tanya
came reporting from Jerusalem Tanya
thank you so much
German Chancellor Olaf Schultz has
shared his concerns about the high
number of Civilian casualties in Gaza in
a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister
benami Netanyahu morid is now entering
the Gaza Strip where conditions remain
extremely
dire air drops into Gaza
continue Jordan Germany and the US
dropped Goods in an attempt to relieve
the humanitarian situation on the ground
there are growing fears that Israel will
soon extend its ground offensive to Rafa
where hundreds of thousands of displaced
Palestinians have sought
Refuge eight agencies warn that parts of
Gaza already face
famine meanwhile after a visit to Jordan
German Chancellor Ola Schulz arrived in
Israel there he once more stressed
Germany's support for Israel while
urging to keep civilians in Gaza safe
from the lum ground
[Music]
offensive we cannot stand by and watch
Palestinians risk
starvation that's not us that is not
what we stand for
together much more humanitarian Aid is
needed continuously
reliably I shared my concerns with the
Prime Minister that provision of aid
from Israel into Gaza and the conditions
for distribution must be urgently and
massively improved earlier on Sunday is
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu doubled down that the ground
offensive will soon be extended to Rafa
our goal in eliminating the remaining uh
terrorist battalions in Rafa goes hand
inand with enabling the the civilian
population to leave Raa it's not
something that we will do while keeping
the population locked in place in fact
we'll do the very opposite we'll enable
them to leave because our consideration
for for reducing and minimizing civilian
casualties has guided us and will
continue to guide us in the future thank
you very much thank you it's estimated
that 1.5 million people are currently in
Rafa which is more than half of gaza's
population but Netanyahu and Schultz
didn't specify where all these people
should go before Israel's ground
offensive expands into the overcrowded
City